Today 15Mt of wild-caught fish, equivalent to 50% of all marine aquaculture production, is reduced to fishmeal and fish oil (FMFO). This system is unsustainable and wasteful of valuable micronutrients, with over 90% of fish in FMFO being food-grade and as little as 1% of key micronutrients being retained in the species they feed such as salmon. Using the Scottish salmon industry as a case study, we construct three alternative production scenarios. We limit salmon production to the volume which can be produced from seafood by-products alone, and increase direct human consumption of wild-caught fish, also increasing production of carp and mussels in two scenarios. Here we show that in Scotland this could allow over 75% of wild-caught fish to remain unfished. Applying the approach worldwide could allow 3.7 Mt of wild-caught fish to remain unfished and seafood production from systems using aquafeed to increase by 39% to 6.1 Mt.



Aquaculture expansion is expected to meet growing demand for sustainable animal-source foods. Yet marine-fed species already require millions of tonnes of wild-caught fish for feed, over 90% of which are nutritious food-grade species. Allocating feed fish for human consumption could reduce pressure on marine resources while increasing the production of nutritious seafood. We examine micronutrient flows in Scotland's farmed salmon industry, which is particularly reliant on marine feeds, to show that 1-49% of essential dietary micronutrients available in wild fish are retained in farmed salmon. We next show that reducing marine feeds in salmon production and allocating wild-caught feed fish for human consumption could produce more nutritious seafood and leave over 75% of wild-caught fish in the sea. Applying this scenario to all marine-fed aquaculture species, we show that removing wild-caught fish from salmonid production could leave 3.7 Mt fish in the sea while increasing global seafood production by 6.1 Mt. 

